Title: Comment System
url: comment-system
toc: yes

## Basic Mechanism

You can commit a comment to a post, an image, event a file. All the comments of a document will be put together and synced to your Dropbox and your computer.


### Comments File

The comments file is related to a normal document (like a post), for example:

Assume the path of a post is `mysite.com/category/today.md`, then its comments file will be located at `mysite.com/category/today.comments.md`.

If the document is not a post, the system will add `.txt` as the extension of the comments file. Assume there is an image, its path is `mysite.com/_image/photo.jpg`; then its comments file's path is `mysite.com/_image/photo.comments.jpg.txt`.

If you changed a file's  name or path, you should also change the name or path of the related comments file.


### Format of Comments File

In the comments file, each comment is splited by `- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  `.

```
date: 2013-04-19 07:57:58
author: Joshua7v
email: joshua7v@***.com
site: http://www.ifanother.com
ip: 127.0.0.1

This is comment content.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

date: 2013-04-19 07:57:58
author: Joshua7v
email: joshua7v@***.com
site: http://www.ifanother.com
ip: 127.0.0.1

This is comment content 2.

```


###  Typically  Used

FarBox try to let a human being understand a database which one is designed for human. The comments system is base on this principle too.

Of couse, there are limits because of this principle. By plaintext, we can't handle the nested structure; and if too many comments in one document, every new comment will bring slowdowns in performance.

Scenarios that typically used:

- You want to keep simple, this comments system is a out-of-the-box feature.
- Personal communication
- Less than hundreds comments per post
- Keep the data of comments in your hand (Dropbox)


## Commit a Comment

### The URL for Committing

When visiting a URL like `/post/<post_url>`, and it's a detail page for a post. Then you can commit a new comment to this URL in method `POST`.

If you customed your own URL rules, you should run `{{ add_doc_actions(doc) }}` to make a page can accept the new comment.


### Fields in POST


| Field | Required | Description | 
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| email | yes| -- | 
| author |  no | if a blank value, the forepart of email will be the name | 
| site | no | website url|
| content | yes | >5 letters |
| referrer | no | a referrer url that notification email will use to link back |
| json | no | if ture, return the result in json format |


If error happes and `json=true`, the data returned looks like `{error: 'error infomation'}`; otherwise, it will be the new comment object in JSON format.


## Email Notification

If the new comment from a Web client, and `@` someone who will receive a email notification. Besides, the owner of the site will receive one too.

Less than 2 notifications per 2 minutes per email, if exceed, the notification system will not work and keep waiting for 2 minutes.

## Third Party Comments

Maybe you want to install a third party comments like <http://disqus.com>. Because FarBox's API system is open and diversified, we can't make sure whether the solutions below can work:

1. The designer of template may support it, go to your admin dashboard to setup;
- Or in the admin dashboard, in the `Template Engine`, input your own script code. Refers [scripts_for_doc](http://doc.farbox.com/read/site-configs#toc_19)
- Modify the template file by yourself, it should usually be `post.html`, add your script code in a right place.



